.TH DELTA 1
.SH  NAME
delta \- add a new version to an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B delta
[
.B -p
]
s.file1 s.file2 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Delta
will record any changes that have been made
to the given SCCS files since
the last time delta was used.
If the name of an SCCS file is "s.alice", then the new version of the text
will be read from the plaintext file "alice".
.PP
.B Delta
will output a line asking for "comments ?".
The user should type in a one or two line explanation of why the changes
making up the delta were made.
If the comments are more than one line long, each line but the last must
have a '\\\' character as the last character on the line.
The first line without a terminating '\\\' character ends the comments.
.PP
In order for
.B delta
to work,
the file must have previously been "gotten" by the get(1) command with
a "get -e".
This will have produced a p-file (for example, p.alice).
If the delta is successful, both the p-file and the plaintext file
will be removed, leaving only the s-file.
.PP
The optional
.B -p
flag will cause delta to print a listing of the changes made since the last
delta, in the format produced by diff(1).
.PP
If successful,
.B delta
will print the version number of the new version, followed by the number
of lines added, deleted and left unchanged since the previous version.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
/bin/diff
Used to compute differences between versions
.TP 10
x-file
(ex. x.alice) -- temporary file used to create new s-file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
get(1), prt(1), admin(1), what(1), sccsdiff(1), diff(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This program was written by David R. Galloway.
It is a re-implementation of the original Source
Code Control System (SCCS)
delta command, which was written at Bell Labs.
.SH BUGS
The original Bell version had many other flags, which are not
supported by this implementation.
